Cross entity transactions (#18402)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-net: sdk/servicebus/Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus/samples/Sample06_Transactions.md

}
```

### Transactions across entities

> When creating senders and receivers that should be part of a cross-entity transaction, you can specify the same `TransactionGroup` string in the options as shown below. When using transaction groups, the first entity that an operation occurs on becomes the entity through which all subsequent sends will be routed through. This enables the service to perform a transaction that is meant to span multiple entities. This means that subsequent entities that perform their first operation need to either be senders, or if they are receivers they need to be on the same entity as the initial entity through which all sends are routed through (otherwise the service would not be able to ensure that the transaction is committed because it cannot route a receive operation through a different entity). For instance, if you have SenderA and ReceiverB that are part of the same transaction group, you would need to receive first with ReceiverB to allow this to work. If you first used SenderA to send to QueueA, and then attempted to receive from QueueB, an `InvalidOperationException` would be thrown. You could still add a ReceiverA to the same transaction group after initially sending to SenderA, since they are both using the same queue. This would be useful if you also had a SenderB that you want to include as part of the transaction group (otherwise there would be no need to use transaction groups as you would be dealing with only one entity).

Reviewer: nit:  You may want to consider a blank line after the heading for consistency with the other sections in this doc.

> When creating senders and receivers that should be part of a cross-entity transaction, you can specify the same `TransactionGroup` string in the options as shown below. When using transaction groups, the first entity that an operation occurs on becomes the entity through which all subsequent sends will be routed through. This enables the service to perform a transaction that is meant to span multiple entities. This means that subsequent entities that perform their first operation need to either be senders, or if they are receivers they need to be on the same entity as the initial entity through which all sends are routed through (otherwise the service would not be able to ensure that the transaction is committed because it cannot route a receive operation through a different entity). For instance, if you have SenderA and ReceiverB that are part of the same transaction group, you would need to receive first with ReceiverB to allow this to work. If you first used SenderA to send to QueueA, and then attempted to receive from QueueB, an `InvalidOperationException` would be thrown. You could still add a ReceiverA to the same transaction group after initially sending to SenderA, since they are both using the same queue. This would be useful if you also had a SenderB that you want to include as part of the transaction group (otherwise there would be no need to use transaction groups as you would be dealing with only one entity).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating senders and receivers that should be part of a cross-entity transaction, you can specify the same `TransactionGroup` string in the options as shown below. When using transaction groups, the first entity that an operation is performed on (send or receive) becomes the entity through which all subsequent sends will be routed through.  This behavior allows the service to initiate a transaction that spans multiple entities.  This constraint means that other entities included in the transaction must first have a message sent to them.  Receiving must take place on the initial entity which is now where all sends are routed through. 

For example, assume that SenderA is using QueueA and ReceiverB is using QueueB.  If SenderA and ReceiverB belong to the same transaction group, you would need to receive first with ReceiverB to avoid participating in a cross-entity transaction. If SenderA publishes a message first, then ReceiverB would trigger an `InvalidOperationException`  trying to read from QueueB, because the transaction is routed through QueueA.  You would still be able to later add ReceiverA to the same transaction group to receive from QueueA, since QueueA is the entity through which the transaction is routed.  You would also be able to add SenderB to the transaction group and publish to QueueB, as Service Bus will ensure that the message is routed through QueueA and visible to the transaction.
```

Reviewer: I had a difficult time understanding;  I tried rewriting the paragraph primarily to force myself to read it over a few times until I *think* that I get it.    I left it here for two reasons - first, so that you can correct me if I'm still not getting it and second, in case the rephrasing helps to illustrate where I struggled.

Author: Chatted offline - will update to include the example of what won't work in the sample

}
```

### Transactions across entities

> In the previous version of the library, when attempting to perform transactions that spanned multiple entities, it was necessary to configure your senders so that they would send-via the other entity in the transaction. With updates to the service, the new library introduces the concept of transaction groups to handle cross entity transactions. When creating senders and receivers that should be part of a cross-entity transaction, you can specify the same `TransactionGroup` string in the options as shown below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous version of the library, when attempting to perform transactions that spanned multiple entities, it was necessary to configure your senders so that they would `send-via` the other entity in the transaction. With updates to the service, the new library introduces the concept of transaction groups to handle cross-entity transactions. When creating senders and receivers that should be part of a cross-entity transaction, you can specify the same `TransactionGroup` string in the options as shown below. 
```

Author: I'm thinking this discussion about send-via would be better suited for the migration guide. I will update to just give a brief conceptual overview of the feature in this sample.

> In the previous version of the library, when attempting to perform transactions that spanned multiple entities, it was necessary to configure your senders so that they would send-via the other entity in the transaction. With updates to the service, the new library introduces the concept of transaction groups to handle cross entity transactions. When creating senders and receivers that should be part of a cross-entity transaction, you can specify the same `TransactionGroup` string in the options as shown below. 

Reviewer: Is there a sample around `send-via` or documentation on it that we can link?   I'm not familiar with the semantics and implications, and it would have been helpful to read about, since it's assumed knowledge in this sample.

Author: I think part of the issue here is that this new feature is meant to abstract away the whole send-via concept, but it doesn't do so completely. I'm debating whether it is even worth re-introducing this concept to an audience that may not be aware of it vs just listing the perhaps arbitrary seeming rules that are a result of the underlying implementation.

> There are a few caveats when working with transaction groups: 

Reviewer: To use this header-style format, you'd need either a list to follow or a series of paragraphs showing a sequence  _(e.g.  First blah blah.   Next blah blah.  Finally blah blah.)_    Since you seem to have a single, cohesive paragraph, you may want to consider just folding this in and making it the leading sentence in the paragraph itself.

> The first entity that performs an operation becomes the implicit send-via entity. This means that subsequent entities that perform their first operation need to either be senders, or if they are receivers they need to be on the same entity as the initial send-via entity. For instance, if you have SenderA and ReceiverB that are part of the same transaction group, you would need to receive first with ReceiverB to allow this to work. If you first used SenderA to send to Queue A, and then attempted to receive from Queue B, an `InvalidOperationException` would be thrown. You could still add a ReceiverA to the same transaction group after initially sending to SenderA, since they are both using the same queue. This would be useful if you also had a SenderB that you want to include as part of the transaction group (otherwise there would be no need to use transaction groups as you would be dealing with only one entity).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first entity that performs an operation becomes the implicit `send-via` entity. This means that subsequent entities that perform their first operation need to either be senders, or if they are receivers, they need to be on the same entity as the initial `send-via` entity. For instance, if you have SenderA and ReceiverB that are part of the same transaction group, you would need to receive first with ReceiverB to allow this to work. If you first used SenderA to send to QueueA, and then attempted to receive from QueueB, an `InvalidOperationException` would be thrown. You could still add a ReceiverA to the same transaction group after initially sending to SenderA, since they are both using the same queue. This would be useful if you also had a SenderB that you want to include as part of the transaction group (otherwise there would be no need to use transaction groups as you would be dealing with only one entity).
```

> The first entity that performs an operation becomes the implicit send-via entity. This means that subsequent entities that perform their first operation need to either be senders, or if they are receivers they need to be on the same entity as the initial send-via entity. For instance, if you have SenderA and ReceiverB that are part of the same transaction group, you would need to receive first with ReceiverB to allow this to work. If you first used SenderA to send to Queue A, and then attempted to receive from Queue B, an `InvalidOperationException` would be thrown. You could still add a ReceiverA to the same transaction group after initially sending to SenderA, since they are both using the same queue. This would be useful if you also had a SenderB that you want to include as part of the transaction group (otherwise there would be no need to use transaction groups as you would be dealing with only one entity).

Reviewer: I found this paragraph dense and am still not sure that I fully understand what you're describing or how/why things work.   For example, the initial sentence states that the first operation needs to be done by a sender, but the example in the second sentence says that `ReceiverB` needs to receive before using `SenderA`.    It's also not clear if that sender/receiver combination is using the same queue or not _(though the later sentence leads me to believe they are not here...)_

You may want to chop this up into smaller paragraphs or bullets with a single context that you specify first and then describe the interactions and caveats.

```C# Snippet:ServiceBusTransactionGroup

> // the first sender won't be part of our transaction group

Reviewer: nit:  Since they're part of your documentation, you may want to consider treating these comments as sentences.   Each is missing capitalization and punctuation.
